Title: Western Digital Corporation Joins iRODS Consortium To Help Advance Adoption Of Cloud Storage Architectures
Date: 2016-04-05 07:01
Author: Dan Bedard
Slug: hgst-joins-the-irods-consortium
Status: published

**SAN JOSE, Calif. –** Helping the world harness the power of data,
Western Digital Corporation (NASDAQ: WDC) today announced that it is now
an active contributor to the iRODS Consortium, a membership-based
consortium that develops and supports the integrated Rule-Oriented Data
System ([iRODS](http://irods.org/)), an open source software platform
for storing, searching, and sharing large files and datasets. Thousands
of organizations around the world use iRODS for flexible, policy-based
management of files and metadata that span across diverse storage
devices and locations. Western Digital Corporation will initially
contribute advanced HGST S3 connector technology to the iRODS
architecture to enhance cloud connectivity.  
<!--more-->

"We are impressed with HGST’s enthusiastic support for the work iRODS is
doing, and look forward to its participation in helping to advance the
iRODS architecture in the market," said Dan Bedard, director of the
iRODS Consortium. "As an iRODS member and contributor, HGST will play an
important role in directing iRODS technology and in the governance of
the consortium."

Western Digital Corporation is an industry-leading developer and
manufacturer of storage solutions that enable people to create,
leverage, experience and preserve data. Last April, the company released
the [HGST Active Archive
System](http://www.hgst.com/products/systems/hgst-active-archive-system),
a fully integrated, Amazon S3^TM^-compliant, scale-out object storage
solution delivering 4.7 petabytes (PB) of raw data storage in a single
rack. Leveraging HelioSeal® helium-filled disk drive technology and
end-to-end optimization of system software and hardware, the system
provides the industry’s best capacity, density and TCO with support for
geo-dispersed replication, data-at-rest encryption (DARE), as well as
distributed erasure coding for cloud-scale data durability and
reliability.

"iRODS is a key component in our strategy to provide the highest
quality, innovative, active archiving solution available," said Barbara
Murphy, vice president of marketing at WDC. "As members of iRODS, we
look forward to working closely with development teams to help enhance
S3 connectivity to enable smarter data movement within life sciences
research and related data-intensive applications."

**HGST Platinum Sponsor at BioIT World**

Representatives from HGST and iRODS will be on hand in Boston to discuss
the benefits of iRODS consortium membership. WDC will showcase the HGST
Active Archive System.

**What:** BioIT World Conference and Expo  
**When:  **April 5 – 7, 2016  
**Where:** Boston, MA  
**Booth(s):** HGST \#560, iRODS \#148  
  
**HGST Presentation:** "Managing the Mayhem: Overcoming the Challenges
of Long-term Data Retention," Wednesday, April 6 at 5:00 p.m.

Follow HGST
on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/hgst-a-western-digital-company), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/HGSTStorage), [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/HGSTStorage), and [\#HGSTStorage](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23HGSTStorage),
[\#LongLiveData](https://twitter.com/hashtag/longlivedata)

**About the iRODS Consortium**

The iRODS Consortium is a membership organization that leads development
and support of the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), free
open source software for data discovery, workflow automation, secure
collaboration, and data virtualization. The iRODS Consortium provides a
production-ready iRODS distribution and iRODS professional integration
services, training, and support. The world's top researchers in life
sciences, geosciences, and information management use iRODS to control
their data. Learn more at [irods.org.](http://irods.org/)

The iRODS Consortium is administered by founding member RENCI, a
research institute for applications of cyberinfrastructure at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. For more information about
RENCI, please visit [www.renci.org](http://www.renci.org).

**About Western Digital Corporation**

Western Digital Corporation (NASDAQ: WDC) is an industry-leading
developer and manufacturer of storage solutions that enable people to
create, leverage, experience and preserve data. The company addresses
ever-changing market needs by providing a full portfolio of compelling,
high-quality storage solutions with effective technology deployment,
high efficiency, flexibility and speed. Our products are marketed under
the HGST and WD brands to OEMs, distributors, resellers, cloud
infrastructure providers and consumers. For more information, please
visit [www.hgst.com](http://www.hgst.com) and
[www.wd.com](http://www.wd.com).

** About HGST**

HGST ([@HGSTStorage](https://twitter.com/HGSTStorage)) branded storage
solutions power the markets and companies that shape our lives—enabling
possibilities for the cloud, enterprise and sophisticated
infrastructures everywhere. For more information, please visit
[www.hgst.com](http://www.hgst.com).

*One GB is equal to one billion bytes and one TB equals 1,000 GB (one
trillion bytes). One PB is equal to 1,000 TB (one quadrillion bytes).
Actual capacity will vary depending on operating environment and
formatting.  Usable capacity will vary from the raw capacity due to
object storage methodologies and other factors.*

*HelioSeal, Simplicity at Scale, and Long Live Data are trademarks, and
Ultrastar is a registered trademark of Western Digital Corporation and
its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries.   Amazon S3
is a trademark of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.All other
trademarks are properties of their respective owners.*
