Title: iRODS Chief Technologist named interim head of iRODS Consortium
Date: 2016-05-23 10:14
Author: Cesar Garde
Slug: irods-chief-technologist-named-interim-head-of-irods-consortium
Status: published

Jason Coposky, Chief Technologist for the consortium for the past two
years, has been named Interim Executive Director.

In that role, he will lead efforts to implement iRODS software
development strategies, build and nurture relationships with existing
and potential consortium members, and serve as the chief spokesperson on
iRODS development and strategies to the worldwide iRODS community. He
replaces Dan Bedard who left the position at the end of April.

As iRODS Consortium Chief Technologist, Coposky managed the iRODS
development team located at the Renaissance Computing Institute (RENCI)
at UNC-Chapel Hill. He led the successful effort to transform the iRODS
research software developed over more than 20 years into the enterprise
version of iRODS now known as iRODS 4.0. In that role, he managed the
software development team, directed the full software development
lifecycle, and coordinated code hardening, testing, and application of
formal software engineering practices. Under his leadership of the
development team, the iRODS Consortium has more than doubled in size and
iRODS 4.0 has been implemented as a data management and data sharing
solution at businesses, research centers, and government agencies in the
U.S., Europe, and Asia.

Coposky has nearly 20 years of professional software engineering
experience, primarily in data management, cross-platform library
development, and computer graphics. He has worked at RENCI for the last
10 years, first as a visualization software developer and then as a data
management software engineer before taking on the lead software
engineering role with the iRODS Consortium.

Coposky will play a lead role in the upcoming iRODS User Group Meeting
(UGM), scheduled for June 8 and 9 in Chapel Hill, NC. The meeting will
provide in-depth information about the new iRODS 4.2, use cases,
demonstrations, and the opportunity to attend full-day training sessions
the day before the UGM.

For more information on iRODS, the iRODS Consortium, or the iRODS UGM,
please visit [irods.org](https://www.irods.org).
