Title: iRODS Consortium welcomes IBM as latest member
Date: 2015-05-28 10:21
Author: Terrell Russell
Category: Consortium, News
Slug: irods-consortium-welcomes-ibm-as-latest-member
Status: published

CHAPEL HILL, NC - IBM is the latest company to join the iRODS
Consortium, a membership organization of users and service providers
that sustains the integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS) as free
open source data management software.

IBM has signed an agreement that will make the company the eighth member
of the consortium. IBM joins [DataDirect Networks](http://www.ddn.com/)
(DDN), [EMC Corporation](http://www.emc.com/),
[Seagate](http://www.seagate.com/), the UK-based [Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute](https://www.sanger.ac.uk/), the [Atmospheric Science Data
Center](https://eosweb.larc.nasa.gov/) at [NASA Langley Research
Center](http://www.nasa.gov/centers/langley/home/index.html), the
Renaissance Computing Institute ([RENCI](http://www.renci.org)) and the
Data Intensive Cyber Environment ([DICE](http://dice.unc.edu/)) center
as members of the two-year-old consortium.

“IBM works with hundreds of hospitals, clinics, and life sciences
research organizations to help them use the explosion of health-related
data to improve health and operational outcomes,” said Dave Turek, Vice
President of HPC Market Engagement at IBM. “We see iRODS as a tool that
can help our customers take advantage of all that data—80 percent of
which is unstructured and omitted from traditional analysis. Our
customers want to unlock knowledge from data and, in keeping with our
OpenPOWER strategy and commitment to open source technology, we want to
give them open standards based toolkits for doing that. iRODS is a
practical solution for managing, sharing, and preserving these large,
unstructured data sets.”

The iRODS Consortium was formed in 2013 by RENCI and DICE, both research
institutes at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. It is
administered by RENCI, an institute that builds and deploys technologies
to enable scientific discovery and business innovation. iRODS began as a
research software package for managing large distributed data sets, and
through software development efforts supported by RENCI, DICE, and the
iRODS Consortium, it has evolved into open source, enterprise grade
software aimed at deployment in mission critical environments.

“IBM is an industry leader in big data and data analytics. They bring
years of file system and platform experience to the table, as we are
continuing to build iRODS as a world class data management framework,”
said iRODS Consortium Interim Executive Director Dan Bedard. “iRODS will
help IBM provide more value to its customers—in the life sciences space,
for research archives, and in countless other areas that are overwhelmed
by the deluge of data. In turn, the addition of IBM to the consortium
helps us build a more versatile product to serve a rapidly growing iRODS
community.”

IBM, and the worldwide community of iRODS users and stakeholders will
meet June 10 and 11 in Chapel Hill for their annual User Group Meeting.
Get involved. Go to <http://irods.org/ugm2015/> for more information and
to register.

**About the iRODS Consortium**

The iRODS Consortium is a membership organization that supports the
development of the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), free
open source software for data discovery, workflow automation, secure
collaboration, and data virtualization. The iRODS Consortium provides a
production-ready iRODS distribution and iRODS training, professional
integration services. The world’s top researchers in life sciences,
geosciences, and information management use iRODS to control their data.
Learn more at irods.org.

The iRODS Consortium is administered by founding member RENCI, a
research institute for applications of advanced technologies at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. For more on RENCI, see
[renci.org](http://www.renci.org)

 
