Title: iRODS helps astronomers take control of massive survey data
Date: 2016-01-07 10:55
Author: Terrell Russell
Category: News
Slug: irods-helps-astronomers-take-control-of-massive-survey-data
Status: published

CHAPEL HILL, NC, January 7, 2016 - An international research team
studying many of the tough questions in astronomy, including the
evolution of galaxies and the nature of dark matter, now have a way to
query their massive data sets, store and retrieve data and corresponding
metadata, and transport files and images.

By partnering with data specialists at UNC-Chapel Hill’s Renaissance
Computing Institute ([RENCI](http://www.renci.org)) who develop the
integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS) researchers and students
now have online databases for two large astronomical data sets: the
REsolved Spectroscopy of a Local VolumE (RESOLVE) survey and the
Environmental COntext (ECO) catalog.

The RESOLVE Survey combines new optical and radio spectroscopy with
archival multi-wavelength photometry to perform an unprecedented census
of gas, dark matter, and stars in galaxies and their larger groupings,
spanning nearly five orders of magnitude in spatial scale. The ECO
catalog is designed to complement RESOLVE by providing a similar, but
purely archival census within an order of magnitude larger volume.

“This is about going from rags to riches,” said Sheila Kannappan, PhD,
associate professor of physics and astronomy at UNC-Chapel Hill and
principal investigator for the RESOLVE project. “We went from having raw
data with no ability to query it to databases that are searchable,
expandable and flexible with version control.”

Both databases use [iRODS](http://irods.org), the integrated
Rule-Oriented Data System, to store and retrieve galaxy information,
flexible image transport system (FITS) files, and corresponding
metadata. iRODS is free open source data management software used by
thousands of businesses, research centers, and government agencies
worldwide for flexible, policy-based data management that provides
long-term preservation and federation. iRODS is developed and maintained
by a software engineering team at RENCI with support from the [iRODS
Consortium](http://irods.org/consortium/), a membership-based foundation
organized to sustain iRODS development. iRODS developer Justin James
worked closely with Kannappan and her research team to incorporate the
two astronomical surveys into the iRODS platform.

“Data doesn’t mean much if it can’t be accessed and used, and we are
proud that iRODS played a part in making these important data sets
available,” said iRODS Consortium Executive Director Dan Bedard. “It’s
great to play a role in helping scientists make discoveries and
educating future scientists.”

The new RESOLVE and ECO databases premiered this week at the [2016
American Astronomical Society](http://aas.org/meetings/aas227) meeting
in Kissimmee, FL.

For more information on RESOLVE and ECO, see
[http://resolve.astro.unc.edu/.](http://resolve.astro.unc.edu/)

**About the iRODS Consortium**

The iRODS Consortium is a membership organization that supports the
development of the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), free
open source data management software for data discovery, workflow
automation, secure collaboration, and storage virtualization. The iRODS
Consortium provides a production-ready iRODS distribution and iRODS
support and professional integration services. The world’s top
researchers in life sciences, geosciences, and information management
use iRODS to control their data. Learn more at
[irods.org](http://irods.org).

The iRODS Consortium is administered by founding member RENCI, a
research institute for applications of advanced technologies at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. For more on RENCI, see
[renci.org](http://renci.org).
