Title: iRODS Partners and iRODS Hub: New Ways to Access Support and Plugins
Date: 2015-08-31 17:02
Author: Dan Bedard
Slug: irods-partners-and-irods-hub
Status: published

*iRODS Partners and iRODS Hub will enhance support and allow easy
sharing of plugins*

CHAPEL HILL, NC - The iRODS Consortium has launched two new services to
support the continued growth of its strong, dynamic user and developer
communities.

iRODS—the integrated Rule-Oriented Data System—is free open source data
management software that helps organizations control massive amounts of
unstructured data by providing capabilities including automated
organization, archiving, access control, auditing, and search. The iRODS
Consortium is a membership organization that supports ongoing iRODS
development. It is based at the [Renaissance Computing Institute
(RENCI)](http://renci.org) at the University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill.

The [iRODS Partner Program](https://irods.org/partners) assists iRODS
users who need help installing and configuring iRODS by connecting them
with companies that have experience deploying iRODS in production
settings. The iRODS Consortium will continue to provide support to users
through its engineering staff, particularly for cases that require
advanced interaction with the iRODS code base. The iRODS Partner Program
expands on these support capabilities with options for domain-specific
and enterprise-grade service.

"Already, we have iRODS partners with expertise in the life sciences,
media and entertainment, and government data management spaces," said
Dan Bedard, interim executive director of the iRODS Consortium. “And
very soon we will have a partner who can provide 24/7 global support,
directly backed by the Consortium core development team. The iRODS
Partner Program is win-win-win. It helps the growing community of iRODS
users get the most value out of our software, it provides commercial
opportunities for our partners, and it is a force multiplier for the
iRODS Consortium staff."

The iRODS Partner Program has two levels of participation. Gold Partners
are Consortium members, and they provide support that leverages training
and fallback assistance from Consortium staff. Standard Partners have
registered with the Consortium as iRODS solution and service providers.
Current partners are Daystrom Technology Group, Distributed Bio, and
Metadata Technology North America (MTNA). To learn more about the iRODS
Partners Program, or to contact a partner, see
[http://irods.org/partners](https://irods.org/partners).

### iRODS Hub: An App Store for iRODS

The growing iRODS user developer community now has a place to share
software written for iRODS: [iRODS Hub](https://irods.org/hub)
([http://irods.org/hub](https://irods.org/hub)). On this site, users and
developers can link to their plugins, rules, documentation, tutorials,
links, videos, and more, so they can be shared with other users who
could benefit from using them.

"iRODS Hub highlights a key technology built into iRODS 4: the pluggable
architecture," said iRODS Consortium Chief Technologist Jason Coposky.
"Plugins make it easier than ever to connect iRODS to new storage
systems, new authentication methods, and new programming languages.
Through the Hub, iRODS developers can easily show off the plugins
they've written, as well as iRODS rules, clients, documentation, and
other work they’ve done. As our community grows, iRODS Hub will help new
users configure their deployments quickly and easily. And because iRODS
is so flexible, as the resources available through the Hub grow, the
possible uses for iRODS can grow just as quickly."

### About the iRODS Consortium

The iRODS Consortium is a membership organization that supports the
development of the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), free
open source software for data discovery, workflow automation, secure
collaboration, and data virtualization. The iRODS Consortium provides a
production-ready iRODS distribution and iRODS training, professional
integration services, and support. The world's top researchers in life
sciences, geosciences, and information management use iRODS to control
their data. Learn more at irods.org.

The iRODS Consortium is administered by founding member RENCI, a
research institute for applications of cyberinfrastructure at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. For more on RENCI, see
renci.org.

Media Contact: Karen Green, <kgreen@renci.org>, 919.619.8213
