Title: Panasas Joins iRODS Consortium To Advance The Storage Performance Needs Of Life Science Markets
Date: 2016-04-26 15:37
Author: Cesar Garde
Category: Consortium, News
Slug: panasas-joins-irods-consortium-to-advance-the-storage-performance-needs-of-life-science-markets
Status: published

**SAN JOSE, Calif. – April 26, 2016 –** Panasas®, the leader in
performance scale-out network-attached storage (NAS), today announced
that it has joined the iRODS Consortium as a contributing member. The
iRODS Consortium leads development and support of the Integrated
Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), free open source software for data
discovery, workflow automation, secure collaboration, and data
virtualization. The consortium and the iRODS development team are
located at the Renaissance Computing Institute (RENCI) at the University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.

<!--more-->

The world’s top researchers in life sciences, geosciences, and
information management use iRODS to control their data in thousands of
locations worldwide. Panasas will contribute insights into performance
scale-out NAS requirements for supporting instrumentation and
bioinformatics workloads.

"We look forward to the addition of Panasas and their performance
scale-out NAS platform to the iRODS ecosystem," said Dan Bedard,
director of the iRODS Consortium. "As the newest iRODS Consortium member
and already an enthusiastic contributor to the iRODS technology base,
Panasas will play a valuable and exciting role in the continued
evolution of iRODS data management and the iRODS Consortium that drives
its development and support."

Panasas drives industry and research innovation by accelerating
workflows and simplifying data management with ActiveStor®, a fully
integrated performance scale-out NAS solution. ActiveStor leverages the
patented PanFS® file system and the DirectFlow® parallel data access
protocol to deliver data that is accessible, secure, and easily managed.
Industry standard NFS and SMB protocols are also supported. In addition,
Panasas achieves exceptional data-protection with modern erasure-coding
methods that allow reliability to scale with capacity.

“We are looking forward to working with iRODS and its Technology Working
Group members to drive storage technology development that accelerates
the discovery and collaboration of medical solutions by research
institutions worldwide,” said Jim Donovan, chief marketing and sales
officer at Panasas.

For more information on how Panasas storage solutions drive business
innovation, visit
[www.panasas.com/solutions](http://www.panasas.com/solutions). For more
information on the iRODS Consortium, visit
[www.irods.org](https://www.irods.org).

**About Panasas**

Panasas is the performance scale-out NAS leader for unstructured data,
driving industry and research innovation by accelerating workflows and
simplifying data management. Panasas ActiveStor® appliances leverage the
patented PanFS® storage operating system and DirectFlow® protocol to
deliver performance and reliability at scale from an appliance that is
as easy to manage as it is fast to deploy. Panasas storage is optimized
for the most demanding workloads in life sciences, manufacturing, media
and entertainment, energy, government as well as education environments,
and has been deployed in more than 50 countries worldwide. For more
information, visit [www.panasas.com](http://www.panasas.com).
