Title: iRODS Consortium Welcomes Texas Advanced Computing Center to Partner Program
Date: 2016-01-11 12:50
Author: Terrell Russell
Slug: texas-advanced-computing-center-new-partner
Status: published

CHAPEL HILL, NC, January 11, 2016 - The [Texas Advanced Computing
Center](https://www.tacc.utexas.edu/) (TACC), a facility that provides
scientists with some of the world’s most powerful computing resources to
enable discoveries, is the latest organization to join the iRODS Partner
Program, the [iRODS Consortium](http://irods.org/consortium/) announced
today.

The iRODS Partner Program connects people who have data management
challenges with organizations that can help solve them. All iRODS
Partners have extensive experience with iRODS, the integrated Rule
Oriented Data System, as deployed in production environments.

TACC, based at The University of Texas at Austin, designs, deploys and
operates a wide range of high performance computing systems used by
thousands of scientists each year to study problems in biology,
medicine, environmental sciences, nanomaterials, astrophysics and much
more. iRODS, free open source data management software used by research
and business organization around the globe, is an important component of
the services TACC provides through its Corral data management system and
the Wrangler system, a computing environment for data-intensive
applications provided though the National Science Foundation’s
[XSEDE](https://www.xsede.org/) initiative.

“TACC uses iRODS to support research data management, dissemination, and
reporting activities which are increasingly crucial to the research
enterprise, and with the Wrangler system, we expect to be at the
forefront of development and deployment of exciting new capabilities
based on the iRODS technology and associated software products,” said
Chris Jordan, manager of the Data Management and Collections group at
TACC. “As such we are excited to be a part of the iRODS Partner Program.
We appreciate the opportunity to learn from and to share experiences
with other institutions using iRODS in similar capacities, and to help
those who may just be getting started with research data management and
iRODS to learn this exciting technology.”

TACC joins [Daystrom Technology Group](http://www.daystrom.com/),
[Distributed Bio](http://www.distributedbio.com/) and [Metadata
Technology North America](http://www.mtna.us/?page_id=2668) as members
of the iRODS Partner Program, which was launched in July 2015. In
addition to the Partner Program, the iRODS Consortium provides support
to users through its engineering staff, particularly for cases that
require advanced interaction with the iRODS code base. The iRODS Partner
Program expands on these support capabilities with options for
domain-specific and enterprise-grade service.

“TACC is an exciting addition to the Partner Program,” said Dan Bedard,
executive director of the iRODS Consortium. “With years of iRODS
experience, they already support a number of important production-level
deployments that manage substantial amounts of research data. TACC is a
world-class center with a reputation for responsive, effective user
support. Researchers from a broad range of scientific domains can be
assured they will have the support and assistance they need by working
with our partners at TACC.”

The iRODS Partner Program has two levels of participation. Gold partners
are Consortium members, and they provide support that leverages training
and fallback assistance from Consortium staff. Standard partners,
including TACC, have registered with the Consortium as solution and
service providers with iRODS experience. To learn more about the iRODS
Partner Program or to contact a partner, see
<http://irods.org/partners/>.

**About the iRODS Consortium**

The iRODS Consortium is a membership organization that supports the
development of the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), free
open source data management software for data discovery, workflow
automation, secure collaboration, and storage virtualization. The iRODS
Consortium provides a production-ready iRODS distribution and iRODS
support and professional integration services. The world’s top
researchers in life sciences, geosciences, and information management
use iRODS to control their data. Learn more at
[irods.org](http://irods.org).

The iRODS Consortium is administered by founding member RENCI, a
research institute for applications of advanced technologies at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. For more on RENCI, see
[renci.org](http://renci.org).
